while this fluid wonder metal is helping
cars lose weight under their hoods it's
also helping them get their bodies into
shape it also allows you to make a lot
of shapes that you couldn't make
otherwise one way of GM shapes its
aluminum parts is with water in a
process known as hydro forming the
reason we to hide reformers were able to
form it in any particular shape that we
need it without welding sections
together the hydro forming process
allows us to make one part and is proven
to be higher durability than you get out
of two pieces welded together these
water shaped tools will become part of
the frame of a Corvette once a tube
enters the die high-capacity pumps flood
it with up to a hundred gallons of water
the resulting pressure helps the
aluminum form into the precise shapes of
the dye it's all over in less than two
minutes I'm sitting in the Corvette body
structure that contains aluminum
hydroformed rails these aluminum rails
replaced steel rails that serve the same
function but we're heavier
this enables us to produce a Corvette
that is lighter and has better 0 to 60
time than you would get with steel
version the pressure to shape aluminum
car parts isn't restricted to water
[Music]
you can also use air with a new
technology known as qpf it stands for
quick plastic forming which is not
plastic we're working with aluminum but
we take aluminum to an elevated
temperature state in order to form parts
in shapes that we can't normally form in
this operation we're making the Cadillac
STS trunk lid the inner panel is just
now coming out of the press fully formed
what's coming in is the preheated
aluminum sheet as soon as that guy gets
closed we use air pressure to force that
aluminum up against that steel die
cavity that gives us our shape 2pf
technology fashioned aluminum body
panels for GM's fuel cell powered
concept car the sequel
whether powered by a hydrogen battery or
hybrid engines future vehicles must
become lighter than ever to be
competitive
when you put a lot of money into the
powertrain like you need to do in those
vehicles it doesn't make sense to pull
around a steel cage but aluminum is also
a big hit in a different kind of cage a
batting cage and one of the secrets to
creating a bat that will clean up
against the competition is to give it
one outrageously hot bath in 1973 a car
on the road in America contained an
average of 81 pounds of aluminum by 2006
the average was 319 pounds
aluminum will return on modern marvels
[Music]